docs: add dual region backup (#14981)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/backup-and-restore.md

# Back Up and Restore TiDB Dedicated Data

This document describes how to back up and restore your TiDB Dedicated cluster data on TiDB Cloud. TiDB Dedicated supports both automatic backup and manual backup. Meanwhile, TiDB Dedicated supports two types of data restoration: restore backup data to a new cluster and restore a deleted cluster from the recycle bin.

> **Tip**
>
> To learn how to back up and restore TiDB Serverless cluster data, see [Back Up and Restore TiDB Serverless Data](/tidb-cloud/backup-and-restore-serverless.md).

## Limitations

- TiDB Cloud does not support restoring tables in the `mysql` schema, including user permissions and system variables.

> - If you turn on and off Point-in-time Restore (Point-in-time Restore) multiple times, you can only choose a time point within the recoverable range after the most recent Point-in-time Restore is enabled. The earlier recoverable range is not accessible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you turn on and off Point-in-time Restore multiple times, you can only choose a time point within the recoverable range after the most recent Point-in-time Restore is enabled. The earlier recoverable range is not accessible.
```

## Turn on auto backup

> TiDB Dedicated supports both [snapshot backups](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/br-snapshot-guide) and [log backups](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/br-pitr-guide). Snapshot backup enables users to restore to the the backup point. By default, snapshot backups are taken automatically and stored according to your backup retention policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Dedicated supports both [snapshot backups](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/br-snapshot-guide) and [log backups](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/br-pitr-guide). Snapshot backups enable you to restore data to the backup point. By default, snapshot backups are taken automatically and stored according to your backup retention policy.
```

To turn on this feature:

1. Navigate to the **Backup** page of a TiDB Dedicated cluster.

2. Click **Backup Settings**.

3. Turn the **Auto Backup** switch to **ON**.

4. Turn the **Point-in-time Restore** switch to **ON**.

  > **Warning**
  >
  > - When weekly backup is enabled, point-in-time restore will be enabled by default and cannot be modified.
  > - If the backup schedule is changed from weekly to daily, point-in-time restore remains its original settings. You can manually disable it if needed.
  > - Once point-in-time restore configuration is enabled, **it will only become effective after the completion of the next backup task**. If you want point-in-time restore take effect immediately, you need to manually initiate a backup after configuring it.
  > - 

5. Click **Confirm** to preview the configuration changes.

6. Click **Confirm** again to save changes.

### Configure backup schedule

  > **Warning**
  >

>   > - When weekly backup is enabled, point-in-time restore will be enabled by default and cannot be modified.

Reviewer 2: 这个跟上面的声明重复， 都要保留么？

TiDB Dedicated supports two backup schedules: Daily and Weekly. By default, the backup schedule is set to Daily.You can choose a specific time of the day or week to start snapshot backup.

To configure backup schedule:

1. Navigate to the **Backup** page of a TiDB Dedicated cluster.

2. Click **Backup Settings**.

3. Under **Backup Schedule**, choose either the **Daily** or **Weekly** option. If you choose **Weekly**, specify the days of the week for the backup.

4. In **Backup Time**, set a start time for the daily or weekly cluster backup. By default, it's a daily backup starting from 2:00 AM in the time zone of the cluster's region.

     > **Note**
     >
     > - Scheduling automatic backup jobs during periods of low workload is recommended to minimize the impact on business operations.
     > - Backup jobs will be automatically delayed when importing data jobs are in progress. Do not run the manual backup during data import jobs or cluster scaling.

5. In **Backup Retention**, configure the minimum backup data retention period. The default is 7 days.

    > **Note**
    >

>     > - The automatic backup files will be retained for 31 days from the date of cluster deletion. It is advisable to delete the backup files accordingly.

Reviewer 2: 这个是不对， 集群删除之后， 自动备份的回收周期还是按照之前的retention 设置。

>     > - The automatic backup files will be retained for 31 days from the date of cluster deletion. It is advisable to delete the backup files accordingly.

Author: ```suggestion
    > - After you delete the cluster, the automatic backup files will be kept for a specific duration, as set in Backup Settings. Remember to delete these backup files when necessary.
```

# Back Up and Restore TiDB Dedicated Data

This document describes how to back up and restore your TiDB Dedicated cluster data on TiDB Cloud. TiDB Dedicated supports automatic backup and manual backup. You can also restore backup data to a new cluster or restore a deleted cluster from the recycle bin.

> **Tip**
>
> To learn how to back up and restore TiDB Serverless cluster data, see [Back Up and Restore TiDB Serverless Data](/tidb-cloud/backup-and-restore-serverless.md).

## Limitations

- TiDB Cloud does not support restoring tables in the `mysql` schema, including user permissions and system variables.
- If you turn on and off Point-in-time Restore multiple times, you can only choose a time point within the recoverable range after the most recent Point-in-time Restore is enabled. The earlier recoverable range is not accessible.

> - DO NOT modify the switch of **Point-in-time Restore** and **Dual Region Backup** at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DO NOT modify the switche of **Point-in-time Restore** and **Dual Region Backup** at the same time.
```

1. Navigate to the **Backup** page of a TiDB Dedicated cluster.

2. Click **Backup Settings**.

3. Toggle the **Auto Backup** switch to **On**.

4. Configure the backup schedule as follows:

    - In **Backup Scheduler**, select either the **Daily** or **Weekly** checkbox. If you select **Weekly**, you need to specify the days of the week for the backup.

        > **Warning**
        >
        > - When weekly backup is enabled, the Point-in-time Restore feature is enabled by default and cannot be disabled.
        > - If you change the backup scheduler from weekly to daily, the Point-in-time Restore feature remains its original setting. You can manually disable it if needed.

    - In **Backup Time**, schedule a start time for the daily or weekly cluster backup.

        If you do not specify a preferred backup time, TiDB Cloud assigns a default backup time, which is 2:00 AM in the time zone of the region where the cluster is located.

        > **Note**
        >
        > - Backup jobs are automatically delayed when data import jobs are in progress. **DO NOT** run manual backups during data import, or during cluster scaling.

>     - In **Backup Retention**, configure the minimum backup data retention period. The default is 7 days. To minimize the impact on business, it is recommended to schedule automatic backup during periods of low workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - In **Backup Retention**, configure the minimum backup data retention period. The default period is 7 days. To minimize the impact on business, it is recommended to schedule automatic backup during periods of low workloads.
```

# Back Up and Restore TiDB Dedicated Data

This document describes how to back up and restore your TiDB Dedicated cluster data on TiDB Cloud. TiDB Dedicated supports automatic backup and manual backup. You can also restore backup data to a new cluster or restore a deleted cluster from the recycle bin.

> **Tip**
>
> To learn how to back up and restore TiDB Serverless cluster data, see [Back Up and Restore TiDB Serverless Data](/tidb-cloud/backup-and-restore-serverless.md).

## Limitations

- TiDB Cloud does not support restoring tables in the `mysql` schema, including user permissions and system variables.
- If you turn on and off Point-in-time Restore multiple times, you can only choose a time point within the recoverable range after the most recent Point-in-time Restore is enabled. The earlier recoverable range is not accessible.

> - Do modify the switch of **Point-in-time Restore** and **Dual Region Backup** at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do modify the switches of **Point-in-time Restore** and **Dual Region Backup** at the same time.
```

> - Do modify the switch of **Point-in-time Restore** and **Dual Region Backup** at the same time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- DO NOT modify the switch of **Point-in-time Restore** and **Dual Region Backup** at the same time.
```

- Resolve cases of data write errors by restoring point-in-time that is before the error event.
- Audit the historical data of the business.

It is strongly recommended to turn on this feature. The cost is the same as snapshot backup. For more information, refer to [Data Backup Cost](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-dedicated-pricing-details#backup-storage-cost).

To turn on this feature, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **Backup** page of a TiDB Dedicated cluster.

2. Click **Backup Settings**.

3. Toggle the **Auto Backup** switch to **On**.

4. Toggle the **Point-in-time Restore** switch to **On**.

    > **Warning**
    >
    > Point-in-Time Restore only takes effect after the next backup task is completed. To make it take effect earlier, you can [manually perform a backup](#perform-manual-backups) after enabling it.

5. Click **Confirm** to preview the configuration changes.

6. Click **Confirm** again to save changes.

#### Configure backup schedule

TiDB Dedicated supports daily and weekly backup schedules. By default, the backup schedule is set to daily. You can choose a specific time of the day or week to start snapshot backup.

> 
> To configure the backup schedule, toggle the **Auto Backup** switch to **On** and make the following settings:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

To configure the backup schedule, perform the following steps:
```

1. Navigate to the **Backup** page of a TiDB Dedicated cluster.

2. Click **Backup Settings**.

3. Toggle the **Auto Backup** switch to **On**.

4. Toggle the **Point-in-time Restore** switch to **On**.

5. Configure the backup schedule as follows:

    - In **Backup Scheduler**, select either the **Daily** or **Weekly** checkbox. If you select **Weekly**, you need to specify the days of the week for the backup.

        > **Warning**
        >
        > - When weekly backup is enabled, the Point-in-time Restore feature is enabled by default and cannot be disabled.
        > - If you change the backup scheduler from weekly to daily, the Point-in-time Restore feature remains its original setting. You can manually disable it if needed.

    - In **Backup Time**, schedule a start time for the daily or weekly cluster backup.

        If you do not specify a preferred backup time, TiDB Cloud assigns a default backup time, which is 2:00 AM in the time zone of the region where the cluster is located.

        > **Note**
        >
        > - To minimize the impact on business, it is recommended to schedule automatic backup during periods of low workloads.

>         > - Backup jobs are automatically delayed when data import jobs are in progress. **DO NOT** run manual backups during data import, or during cluster scaling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        > - Backup jobs are automatically delayed when data import jobs are in progress. **DO NOT** run manual backups during data import or cluster scaling.
```

>     - In **Backup Retention**, configure the minimum backup data retention period. The default is seven days.

Author: ```suggestion
    - In **Backup Retention**, configure the minimum backup data retention period. The default is 7 days. To minimize the impact on business, it is recommended to schedule automatic backup during periods of low workloads.
```

>     - In **Backup Retention**, configure the minimum backup data retention period. The default is seven days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - In **Backup Retention**, configure the minimum backup data retention period. The default period is seven days.
```

        > **Note**
        >

>         > - After you delete the cluster, the automatic backup files will be retained for a specified period, as set in **Backup Settings**. You need to delete the backup files accordingly.

Author: ```suggestion
        > - After you delete a cluster, the automatic backup files will be retained for a specified period, as set in backup retention. You need to delete the backup files accordingly.
```

TiDB Dedicated supports dual region backup by replicating backups from your cluster region to another different region. After you enable this feature, all backups are automatically replicated to the specified region. This provides cross-region data protection and disaster recovery capabilities. It is estimated that approximately 99% of the data can be replicated to the secondary region within an hour.

Dual region backup costs include both backup storage usage and cross-region data transfer fees. For more information, refer to [Data Backup Cost](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-dedicated-pricing-details#backup-storage-cost).

To turn on dual region backup, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **Backup** page of a TiDB Dedicated cluster.

2. Click **Backup Settings**.

3. Toggle the **Dual Region Backup** switch to **On**.

4. From the **Dual Region** drop-down list, select a region to store the backup files.

5. Click **Confirm** to preview the configuration changes.

6. Click **Confirm** again to save changes.

### Turn off auto backup

> **Note**
>
> Turning off auto backup will also turn off point-in-time restore by default.

> To turn off auto backup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To turn off auto backup, perform the following steps:
```

    To restore a selected backup to the new cluster, take the following steps:

>     3. Click **Select Backup Name**.

Author: ```suggestion
    1. Click **Select Backup Name**.
```

>     4. Select a backup you want to restore to.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Select a backup you want to restore to.
```

2. Click **Restore**. The setting window displays.

3. In **Restore Mode**, choose **Restore From Region**, indicating the region of backup stores.

    > **Note**
    >
    > - The default value of the **Restore From Region** is the same as the backup cluster.

4. In **Restore Mode**, choose to restore data of any point in time or a selected backup to a new cluster.

    <SimpleTab>
    <div label="Select Time Point">

>     To restore data of any point in time within the backup retention to a new cluster, make sure that **Point-in-time restore** in **Backup Settings** is on and then take the following steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    To restore data of any point in time within the backup retention to a new cluster, make sure that **Point-in-time Restore** in **Backup Settings** is on and then take the following steps:
```
